[[!meta title="Internet Reiki"]]


What is Reiki?
--------------

Reiki is like a good Swedish massage, but without any touching.  A Reiki
practitioner is able to channel energy through their palms and into your
body, making you feel more energized and relaxed at the same time.  In
the past, Reiki has been done on bulky Reiki tables which must be
carried from place to place, and appointments can be very expensive and
time consuming.

This is the first ever long-distance Reiki *web page*, which applies a
Reiki treatment *over the Internet* while you work on other things.


How does this work?
-------------------

I have run this web page through advanced software to calculate the
*total entropy* and *message digest checksum* of the page itself.  I
have tuned the content of this page to match perfecty a digitized copy
of a Reiki session.  By its very nature, this web page is able to tap in
to the boundless life energy sources surrounding you, the viewer, and
focus them into your body.


Does it really work?
--------------------

I am so confident that this program will work for you that I am willing
to pay $5000 to anyone who can demonstrate in a peer-reviewed blind
scientific study that this web page is any less effective than a session
with a fully-trained Reiki practitioner.

In layman's terms, <b>I'll pay you $5000 if this page can be proven to
be any less effective than in-person Reiki.</b>


How do I get started?
---------------------

This web page is *already* applying life energy to you as you read it!
But to get the maximum benefit, please follow these simple instructions:

1. Close your eyes.
2. If you are sitting, put your hands in your lap or on the table.  If
   you are standing, let them hang by your sides.  If you are lying
   down, let your hands fall to your side on the surface you're lying
   on.
3. Take slow, deep breaths, in through your nose, and out through your
   mouth.  Try to visualize your body as an empty container, and feel
   the life energy entering into your body with every breath.
4. Think about your body relaxing, starting with your toes, moving up to
   your feet, then legs, torso, neck, then down your arms to your
   fingertips.  As you reach each body part, feel the tension leave as
   you relax it.  As your muscles relax, the life energy will be able to
   more easily enter them.  The energy has an intelligence that will
   guide it to the areas in most need of help.
5. Try to stay this way for at least 5 minutes at first, working your
   way up to 20.  Please do not go longer than 25 minutes, as your
   muscles may become imbued with the life energy and it may cause you
   to become lethargic, or even fall asleep!  There is no permanent
   danger, of course, since the life energy is benevolent.
