Title: The good and bad of Los Alamos

*I did not write this.  It was in the local newspaper's opinion page,
and I thought it was worth preserving.*

November 5, 2008

Dear Editor,

Today I got a good look at what is right and what is wrong with Los
Alamos. After delaying for months, I got up this morning determined to
have my prescribed blood work done.

I'm always grumpy when I haven't eaten for eight hours, so I was just
barely maintaining my civility when I walked into the Medical Center. I
had forgotten that it was Halloween. My mood was not improved by the
long line at the registration desk. When I saw the cause I was really
annoyed. The staff could hardly keep their minds on their work because
they were celebrating the day.

Now, I don't mind a pumpkin or two or some black cats, but the whole
intake area was decorated to the nines and all personnel were wearing
costumes --- elaborate, commercial costumes. I assume they were
rented. The whole charade was continued at the laboratory --- more
over-the-top decorations and commercial costumes. I believe the
expenditure of time, effort and money could have been put to far better
use than that of enabling a group of adults to dress up in silly
costumes and act like children.

After that ordeal was over I went to McDonald's and had a good breakfast
for four dollars. The change from the five went into the Ronald McDonald
House donation box. That is something right.

Next I went to the library, a place I find compatible and stimulating.
Now, however, I was assaulted by the sight of the county's latest
boondoggle and eyesore --- the skate park. One argument for putting it
in front of the library was that the police could keep an eye on it.
Well, it was eleven o'clock on a Friday morning and there were several
school-age boys using the ramps. Where were the police?

After that I returned home to White Rock, stopping off at the Jemez
House Thrift Store. I found a great Christmas gift for a quarter, but
while I was paying for it I got into conversation with the knowledgeable
volunteer behind the counter. She told me about the nine young people
the thrift store is supporting in their secondary school and college
careers. I had a dollar in my hand and I told her put the change in the
till. Again, that is something right.

— Los Alamos
