Title: The Setup / Neale Pickett

After reading [Russ Cox's setup](http://russ.cox.usesthis.com/)
I thought it might be interesting to write up my own.

September 18, 2014


Who are you, and what do you do?
--------------------------------

I write software.
Mostly I hack around the periphery of free software projects,
jumping in occasionally to things that interest me with patches.
A partial portfolio is on my [source code page](src/).

I also do computer security training for middle and high school kids,
college students, and professionals.
You can read about that at [dirtbags](http://dirtbags.net/).

My hobbies include being a (laid back) disc jockey,
and fiddling around with microcontrollers.


Hardware
--------

I've decided to be very energy conscious.
This means my hardware is low-power and not high-performance.

At home, I have a Thinkpad X200.
My wife uses a Chromebook, and we have a FitPC that gets turned on
when we need to print on our HP LaserJet CM2320.
My pre-teen daughter has a Nexus 7 tablet,
and my wife and I both use Nexus 4 phones.
We also have a Chromecast that's mostly used for Netflix,
and a Wii.

At work, I use an Intel NUC.


Software
--------

I recently switched to Xubuntu from Arch Linux.
I'm not sure I'll stay here, but I got tired of maintaining my one-off
/sbin/init that uses runit.
Linux distributions are all heading toward systemd,
which I strongly dislike. But I figure it's time to catch up
and abandon understanding how the computer boots.

On the desktop, I run Google Chrome, xterm, and acme from plan9port.
Occasionally I kick up inkscape or gimp, and mixxx for my DJ work.
Most of my non-work computer use is through Chrome, which ties me strongly
to Linux, for better or worse.

My non-development stuff is almost entirely in the cloud.
It's very frustrating to have to go to work where people are still emailing
Excel spreadsheets and hand-merging edits.

My FitPC print server runs Ubuntu and some kind of Chromium Cloud Print server thing.
All my home printing is through Google Cloud Print.


What would be your dream setup?
-------------------------------

A Chromebook that had Acme and my development tools.
I really like how my wife's Chromebook updates itself,
and how it doesn't need dozens of mystifying apps in the default menu.

Some day I may figure out how to get Chrome to expose its window manager,
and then I'll probably abandon all of XFCE4,
since I don't really use it for anything other than kicking up Chrome
and acme.

I would also like to do away with the FitPC print server.
I'd love to be able to buy a little box that will hop on our wireless network
and connect our printer to Google Cloud Print.
