Title: Making Unix a little more Plan9-like

I'm not really interested in defending anything.
I tried out plan9port and liked it,
but I have to live in Unix land.
Here's how I set that up.

A Warning
--------

The suckless community,
and some of the plan9 communities,
are dominated by assholes.
I hope that's strong enough wording to impress the severity.
Don't go into IRC for help.
Stay off the suckless email list.
The software is great,
the people who write it are well-spoken and well-reasoned,
but for some reason the fandom is horrible to everyone.

xterm
-----

9term has some really cool ideas.
But Unix has a long history of using graphical terminals,
and lots of stuff needs VT220 compatibility.
xterm is a good compromise.

You can make the xterm scroll bar (and all other Athena scrollbars) prettier
with this in your X resources:

	*Scrollbar.thickness: 10
	*Scrollbar.thumb: None
	*Scrollbar.foreground: gray80
	*Scrollbar.background: gray50
	*Scrollbar.borderWidth: 3
	*ScrollBarBorder: 0

This will swap the left and right mouse buttons,
to work like acme and 9term:

	*Scrollbar.translations: #override\
		<Btn1Down>: StartScroll(Backward) \n\
		<Btn3Down>: StartScroll(Forward) \n\
		<BtnUp>: NotifyScroll(Proportional) EndScroll()

A side note:
if xrdb is never run and your root window doesn't have a
`RESOURCE_MANAGER` property set,
libXaw will read `$HOME/.Xdefaults`.
This is supposedly deprecated,
but Xaw is so ancient it will probably never be removed.


9wm
----

I'm now maintaining the 9wm window manager.
If you like rio you should give it a whirl,
there are some differences you might prefer.
http://woozle.org/neale/g.cgi/x11/9wm/


