Title: Photobob: Web photo albums

I don't have a lot to say about photobob.  It's the 7th or so photo
album package I've written, and probably the best.  You just put
pictures and movies in a directory, and away you go.  This works
really well with [an automated digicam photo sucking
thing](/~neale/blog/2006-10-18.The_automatic_camera_suck_script/).

Like all web applications I write, photobob does not use tables for
layout, and will change layout depending on your browser's width.  It
uses CSS but still looks passable in non-CSS browsers.  There is no
database back-end because it doesn't need one.  It's just files in
directories.

Motivation
----------

I want my photo albums to survive longer than the software that serves
them up.  My grandparents have shoeboxes full of photos, categorized by
date and event.  This is nice because it doesn't require any additional
tools to determine the categorization.

All the web-based photo albums I've run across require some way to store
metadata.  In one extreme example (PHP Gallery), all the images are
stored in one flat directory.  Should the metadata ever become corrupted
or disappear, or should you decide to switch programs, you're left with
a huge mess and your categorization work is lost.

Photobob uses the file system as its categorization.  You put photos in
directories, and attach comments to the photos themselves (using the
JFIF comment field).  This makes it easy to press CDs or DVDs of your
photo albums and still preserve the categorization and narration you've
done.  Should you decide to quit using Photobob, your photos will still
be tucked away in their directories, with no droppings from the album
software.

Photobob also takes advantage of a special property of JPEG files: size
reductions by powers of two (½, ¼, 1/8, etc.) are a very inexpensive
operation when done at decoding time.  Additionally, many digital
cameras write small "thumbnail" images in the JFIF headers.  Photobob
takes advantage of both of these properties to serve up scaled images
quickly and without needing to write anything to the hard drive.


Getting it
----------

It's not really packaged up for distribution, but that's only because I
doubt anyone will want it.  If you're interested in trying it out on
your site, email me and I'll be glad to help you set it up.

You can check out the [woozle albums](http://woozle.org/albums)
for a live demo.

To get your own copy, run

     git clone http://woozle.org/~neale/repos/photobob

Or you can do a [download the latest commit as a tarball](http://woozle.org/~neale/gitweb.cgi?p=photobob;a=snapshot;h=HEAD).
